This year, I have shifted to writing longer pieces on Open Borders: The Case that are based on extensive research and reading into specific aspects of migration law, policy, and history. So far, I have written two posts:

- A post on the buildup to the Chinese Exclusion Act: http://openborders.info/blog/how-did-we-get-here-chinese-exclusion-act-buildup-1848-1872/
- A post on the H-1B status, the main temporary skilled work status in the United States (the post is not yet published, since I am putting finishing touches on it)

One thing I've realized is that writing these posts takes a lot of effort. Part of the effort can be seen in all the Wikipedia pages I've created along the way as I worked towards these posts.

For my next post, I have four candidates. I expect I'll eventually write all four, except the ones that somebody else does a really good job of covering. However, I'd like to focus energy on the one among the three that is most promising. The three candidates are all related to US immigration law; I have other candidates from other countries but none of them make my top list right now.

Here are the candidates:

(1) A continuation of my previous Chinese Exclusion Act post, covering the time period from the Panic of 1873 to the late 1880s, when key court precedents were set. Chris and I have already done one post each on the CEA in addition to the one I did this year, but I think covering more of the buildup to the act and the judicial fallout would be interesting.

(2) A thorough discussion of the history and mechanics of immigration enforcement and how this has evolved since the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. This will cover a wide range of topics but mostly focus on pre-IIRIRA enforcement, the changes sought by the IIRIRA, the timeline for their rollout, changes in the 2000s, the restructuring of INS as DHS agencies, and the interaction with other non-enforcement-related changes to immigration law. The post will essentially focus on the work of ICE and CBP, and less on the administrative functions currently handled by USCIS.

(3) A thorough discussion of the quota system created in 1921/1924, the modification to that system in 1965, the demographic implications of each, and how the quota system works in practices and how it has affected all aspects of migration, including temporary migration and immigration enforcement efforts.

